---
marp: true
_class: lead
# theme: gaia
background: white
paginate: true
---

# Library - Pandas

Jin Wang

MSIS, Rutgers

---
**Outline**


[1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
[2. Basic data structures - Series](#2-basic-data-structures---series)
[3. Basic data structures - DataFrame](#3-basic-data-structures---dataframe)
[4. Obtain characteristics of dataFrame](#4-obtain-characteristics-of-dataframe)
[5. Column selection, addition, deletion](#5-column-selection-addition-deletion)
[6. Write and Read a csv file](#6-write-and-read-a-csv-file)


---
## 1. Introduction

---


**What is Pandas?**
- Pandas is a Python library used for working with data sets.
- It has functions for analyzing, cleaning, exploring, and manipulating data.
---

**Why use pandas?**
- Pandas allows us to analyze big data and make conclusions based on statistical theories.
- Pandas can clean messy data sets, and make them readable and relevant.
- Relevant data is very important in data science.
---

**Installation of Pandas**
- Windows
```base
pip install pandas
```
- Macbook
```base
pip3 install pandas
```
---


**Usage**
- Like NumPy, we need to import pandas library
```python
import pandas as pd
```
---
## 2. Basic data structures - Series

---

**Series**
- `Series` is a one-dimensional labeled array capable of holding any data type (integers, strings, floating point numbers, Python objects, etc.). 
- The axis labels are collectively referred to as the **index**. The basic method to create a `Series` is to call：
	`s = pd.Series(data, index=index)`, 
	- where `data` can be many different things:
		- a Python dict
		- a NumPy ndarray
		- a scalar value.
	- The passed `index` is a list of axis labels. 
---


**From ndarray**
**From dictionary**
**Series is ndarray-like**
**Series is dict-like**



---
## 3. Basic data structures - DataFrame

---

**DataFrame**
- `DataFrame` is a 2-dimensional labeled data structure with columns of potentially different types. 
- You can think of it like a spreadsheet or SQL table, or a dict of Series objects. 
- It is generally the most commonly used pandas object. Like Series, DataFrame accepts many different kinds of input:
	- Dict of 1D ndarrays, lists, dicts, or `Series`
	- 2-D numpy.ndarray
	- A `Series`
	- Another `DataFrame`

---

**From series**
**From dictionary**

---
## 4. Obtain characteristics of dataFrame

- Shape
- Column name
- Index


---
## 5. Column selection, addition, deletion

- Choose a single column
- Choose multiple columns

---
## 6. Write and Read a csv file

---

End
